Some actions you perform cause time to pass in the game world. Some do not. The passage of time is represented by ticks and tocks. The current time is the tock. When the game starts it is tock 0 and as you play you'll see it become tock 1, then tock 2, tock 3, and so on. A tock is something like saying '2:03 pm' except it's expressed in an arbitrary unit of time called the tock. The act of advancing the tock and causing events to occur, things to age, people to move, etc. is called a tick. When a tick occurs it causes 1 tock of time to pass. A tock is sometimes equivalent to a second, minute or hour, depending on the circumstances. But you shouldn't worry about it and instead just think in terms of cause and effect, and in relative amounts of time. The passage of time also has a full 24-hour day/night cycle. During the day there is more light, during the night more darkness. It's harder to see at night, especially at longer distances. If you cannot see into a space well enough, because it is too dark or too far away, then it will appear as a question mark '?' on the map. Zombies seem more active at night as well. Due to this it's generally safer to travel in the day and hole up somewhere safe at night. A 24-hour period lasts %(tocks_per_day)s tocks.

Your body digests 1 calorie per tick to stay alive and in good health. It does so from the contents of your stomach. You may replenish your stomach content by eating food. There are different kinds of food and they have a variety of nutritional content. There are a variety of means of acquiring food but one way is to loot buildings or simply find it laying around. If your stomach becomes empty you begin starving and will lose 1 HP a tock. It is possible to starve to death in this manner.

You will heal slowly and naturally by %(autoheal_amount)s HP every %(autoheal_tocks)s ticks, but only if your current HP is at least %(autoheal_min)s%% of max. In other words, if you are too badly hurt, you will not get better naturally over time, and may even grow worse and possibly die if your wounds are particularly bad. There are items and people (with the right skills) who can heal, as well.

To travel to the level or floor above or below, take a stairway. A stairway look like '<' or '>', depending on whether it goes up or down.

To travel to another region entirely (like another neighborhood or city) follow a path that leads there. A path looks like '/'.

Your game progress will persist in memory from request to request during a game session. We also automatically save your progress to disk periodically, for backup purposes. Normally all of this happens transparently to you and you can just play. You can play for a bit, then pause and do nothing for a while, even leave your browser or turn off your computer, and your progress will not be lost. When you return to the site and log back on, we try to restore your progress from the most recent copy we have of it (ideally, still in memory, but if not there, then from a file on disk.) And so you will take right up where you left off. However, we periodically deploy new releases of the codebase, or make other changes, which cause old save file formats to be invalidated. Since they are invalid and it is too problematic to guarantee a seamless conversion to the new format, we simply blow away all saved state files on disk, in those situations. Therefore, whenever that happens your progress would be lost and you would need to restart your game. We hope to decrease the frequency at which that must happen over time, as the site becomes more stable and the codebase and feature set more mature. Eventually we hope to allow folks to maintain persistant game world progress for months at a time, and maybe longer. But for now it may be at best days or weeks.
